Employee Receipt and Acceptance
The Capytech Employee Handbook (the “Handbook”) has been developed to provide
general guidelines about Capytech policies and procedures for employees. It is a guide to
assist you in becoming familiar with some of the privileges and obligations of your
employment, including Capytechʹs policy of voluntary at-will employment. None of the
policies or guidelines in the Handbook are intended to give rise to contractual rights or
obligations, or to be construed as a guarantee of employment for any specific period of
time, or any specific type of work. Additionally, with the exception of the voluntary at-will
employment policy, these guidelines are subject to modification, amendment or
revocation by Capytech at any time, without advance notice.

I hereby acknowledge receipt of the Capytech Employee Handbook. I understand that it
is my continuing responsibility to read and know its contents.

Signature: _______________________

Print Name: ______________________
Date: ___________________________

Capytech Employee Handbook

Release Date: August 21, 2020 | Version 1

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.

6.

INTRODUCTION
1.1ORGANIZATION DESCRIPTION
1.1.1PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROVIDED
1.1.2FACILITIES AND LOCATION(S)
1.1.3THE HISTORY OF CAPYTECH
1.1.4MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY
1.1.5COMPANY VISION AND MISSION
1.1.6VALUES
1.2INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

2.

THE EMPLOYMENT
2.1EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
2.2EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
2.3BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT
2.4PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS IN THE WORKPLACE
2.5CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
2.6OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
2.7NON-DISCLOSURE
2.8DISABILITY ACCOMMODATION
2.9INTERNAL JOB POSTINGS

3.

6.1

WORK SCHEDULES

6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8
6.9
6.10
6.11
6.12
6.13

USE OF PHONE AND MAIL SYSTEMS

6.14

WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION

SMOKING
MEAL PERIODS

OVERTIME
UNDERTIME
USE OF EQUIPMENT
EMERGENCY CLOSING
BUSINESS TRAVEL EXPENSES
VISITORS IN THE WORKPLACE
COMPUTER AND EMAIL USAGE
INTERNET USAGE
WORKPLACE MONITORING

EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINARY ACT
7.1EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND WORK RULES
7.2DATA PRIVACY RIGHTS
7.3SEXUAL AND OTHER UNLAWFUL HARASSMENT
7.4ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY
7.5PERSONAL APPEARANCE
7.6RETURN OF PROPERTY
7.7RESIGNATION
7.8SECURITY INSPECTIONS
7.9PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
7.10PROBLEM RESOLUTION
7.11WORKPLACE ETIQUETTE
7.12SUGGESTION PROGRAM

EMPLOYMENT STATUS AND RECORDS
3.1EMPLOYMENT CATEGORIES
3.2ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES
3.3PERSONAL DATA CHANGES
3.4PROBATION PERIOD
3.5EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS
3.6PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
3.7JOB DESCRIPTIONS
3.8SALARY ADMINISTRATION
3.9EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION

4.

7

WORK CONDITIONS AND HOURS

8

ONBOARDING CHECKLIST

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PROGRAMS
4.1VACATION BENEFITS
4.2SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
4.3HOLIDAYS
4.4EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS
4.5BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
4.6RELOCATION BENEFITS
4.7TRAINING AND CONTINUOUS LEARNING BENEFITS
4.8MARRIAGE, MATERNITY AND PATERNITY LEAVE
4.9ADDITIONAL BENEFITS

5.

TIMEKEEPING / PAYROLL
5.1TIME KEEPING
5.2PAY DAYS
5.3ADMINISTRATIVE PAY CORRECTIONS

2

3

1. INTRODUCTION
WELCOME TO CAPYTECH!
Capytech was started by the two Founders in 2013! Damian and Jason who
are from Australia and England first met whilst working together in Dubai as
military instructors. Damian is the CEO and Director of Business
Development, trying to continually win us contracts and making sure we have
a huge online presence; Jason is the Director of Product and he Project
Manages all our contracts and clients, at the same time making sure
everything is running smoothly in our quickly growing team.
Like I said, we are growing very quickly and the reason you are reading this
Employee Handbook! We would like to welcome you to Capytech and we can
confidently say that you will enjoy working with us, find the work challenging
but rewarding and most of all, really feel like part of our Capytech family who
love working together.
At Capytech, we believe that each employee contributes directly to the growth
and success of the company, and we hope you will take pride in being a
member of our team. Some of the end products that you will be designing and
developing will be shown all around the world and sometimes, even to royalty,
so you will be very proud to be involved with this level of output.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROVIDED

Capytech are experts in E-learning to enhance training offerings; and LMS (Learning Management
System) for businesses using the most modern technologies providing them with many options in
delivering content. In support of these two main services, Capytech develops a wide variety of
products such as Animation, Gamification, Content Narration, Character Design, and Software
Simulations.
From cloud or on-site solution, or a fully adopted blended E-learning, Capytech builds solutions for
businesses need.
You will find more information about our products and services by visiting:
https://www.capytech.com/#Services.
1.1.2

FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS

Head Office:
Unit 2, 3rd Floor, Auroma Building
MCLL Highway, Guiwan
Zamboanga City, Zamboanga del Sur 7000
1.1.3

THE HISTORY OF CAPYTECH

This handbook was developed to describe some of the expectations of our
employees, to outline the policies, programs, and benefits available to you.
You should become familiar with the contents of the Employee Handbook as
soon as possible, for it will answer many questions about employment with
Capytech.

Capytech was founded in 2013 by Jason and Damian, who at that time were instructors for the
UAE Military. Both of us loved technology and being teachers, didn’t like the way that our students
were being taught, it was very dated. So we turned to the iPad and used that device for interactive
learning. Jason learned how to do basic Graphic Design and Damian tried to sell the product. We
actually won a contract on Jason’s designs and at that point we hired our first Designer from the
Philippines. We quickly moved away from the iPad learning and quickly focused only on
e-learning, and this is where we are today.

We believe that professional relationships are easier when all employees are
aware of the culture and values of the organization. This guide will help you to
better understand our vision for the future of our business and the challenges
that are ahead.

We are now probably the e-learning market leaders in Dubai and overall UAE and are producing
some of the best learning modules and all-round designs I have seen, which is the reason we are
getting more and more contracts from our current clients and new enquiries all the time. We also
have clients all over the world, from Hong Kong, Dominican Republic and the UK.

We hope that your experience here will be challenging, enjoyable, and rewarding.

1.1.4

Again, Welcome!

Capytech management philosophy is based on responsibility and mutual respect. People who
come to Capytech want to work here because we have created an environment that encourages
creativity and achievement. Capytech aims to become a leader in creating e-learning content and
Learning Management Systems (LMS). The mainstay of our strategy will be to offer a level of
client focus that is superior to that offered by our competitors.

Jason and Damian
1.1

1.1.1

ORGANIZATIONAL DESCRIPTION

Capytech is an E-learning company for the UAE and GCC. The company was
founded in the UAE in 2013 and has clients in Dubai, Abu Dhabi as well as in
the GCC and beyond.
Capytech was founded to help companies adopt E-Learning and after seeing
too many poor attempts at using technology in training, the founders of
Capytech knew they could do better. They began to build Custom E-Learning
Content and Learning Management Systems (LMS) specifically for
businesses.
Adopting E-Learning is a unique challenge requiring an understanding of
training, technical ability as well as design skills. Having decades of
experience in these fields, and by combining these skill sets – Capytech is
uniquely able to assist businesses in building industry best E-Learning.

MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY

To help achieve this objective, Capytech seeks to attract highly motivated individuals that want to
work as a team and share in the commitment, responsibility and discipline required to achieve our
vision. While we will be realistic in setting goals and expectations, Capytech will also be
aggressive in reaching its objectives. This success will in turn enable Capytech to give its
employees above average compensation and innovative benefits and rewards, which are key
elements in helping us maintain our leadership position in the worldwide marketplace.

4

5

1.1.5 COMPANY MISSION AND VISION
MISSION
To create World Class E-Learning

2.

THE EMPLOYMENT

2.1

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

VISION
We strive to be the best e-learning supplier wherever we operate, by
delivering excellent value and happiness by developing the best products
and creating excellent relationships. We are a company that people love to
work for through the application of our values.

Capytech believes that the work conditions, wages, and benefits it offers to its
employees are competitive with those offered by other employers in this area and in this
industry. If employees have concerns about work conditions or compensation, they are
strongly encouraged to voice these concerns openly and directly to their supervisors.
Our experience has shown that when employees deal openly and directly with
supervisors, the work environment can be excellent, communications can be clear, and
attitudes can be positive. We believe that Capytech always demonstrates its
commitment to employees by responding effectively to employee concerns and will
always operate an open-door policy, which means when any of our team has a problem
we encourage you to seek advice or help.

1.1.6 VALUES
Our employees share a set of values that shape how we do business every
day. Our core values set a common direction on how to make decisions
with a sense of pride and leadership. We recognize that it is not only what
we achieve, but how we achieve it that truly makes us proud of our
accomplishments.
• Excellent communication at all levels
• Innovative products and designs
• An organization that puts families first
• A company that values, and respects its team
• We deliver value for money to our clients
• We pay attention to detail and timeliness
• We are a cutting-edge company, always learning and experimenting
1.2

In an effort to protect and maintain direct employer/employee communications, we will
do anything we can to protect the right of employees to speak for themselves.
We do however have a reporting chain, starting with the Team Leaders, Mike the
Operations Manager, and finally Jason. Please do not go outside this reporting chain
unless it’s a very serious issue you don’t want to discuss with your Team Leader.
2.2

In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to all individuals,
employment decisions at Capytech will be based on merit, qualifications, and abilities.
Capytech does not discriminate in employment opportunities or practices based on race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or any other characteristic protected by law.

INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

This handbook is designed to acquaint you with Capytech and provide you with
information about working conditions, employee benefits, and some of the policies
affecting your employment. You should read, understand, and comply with all
provisions of the handbook. It describes many of your responsibilities as an
employee and outlines the programs developed by Capytech to benefit employees.
One of our objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to both
personal and professional growth.
No Team Handbook can anticipate every circumstance or question about policy. As
Capytech continues to grow, the need will arise and Capytech reserves the right to
revise, supplement, or rescind any policies or portion of the handbook from time to
time as it deems appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion. Employees will be
notified of such changes to the handbook as they occur.
All of the Capytech Team will be required to read and digitally sign as having read the
Team Handbook.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

This policy governs all aspects of employment, including selection, job assignment,
compensation, discipline, termination, and access to benefits and training.
Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in the
workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their immediate
supervisor who can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Anyone
found to be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment.
2.3

BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT
The successful business operation and reputation of Capytech is built upon the
principles of fair dealing and ethical conduct of our employees. Our reputation for
integrity and excellence requires careful observance of the spirit and letter of all
applicable laws and regulations, as well as a scrupulous regard for the highest
standards of conduct and personal integrity.
The continued success of Capytech is dependent upon our customers' trust and we are
dedicated to preserving that trust. Employees owe a duty to Capytech, its customers,
and shareholders to act in a way that will merit the continued trust and confidence of the
public.

6

7

Capytech will comply with all applicable laws and regulations and expects its
directors, officers, and employees to conduct business in accordance with the letter,
spirit, and intent of all relevant laws and to refrain from any illegal, dishonest, or
unethical conduct.

No "presumption of guilt" is created by the mere existence of a relationship with outside
firms. However, if employees have any influence on transactions involving purchases,
contracts, or leases, it is imperative that they disclose to an officer of Capytech as soon as
possible the existence of any actual or potential conflict of interest so that safeguards can
be established to protect all parties.

In general, the use of good judgment, based on high ethical principles, will guide you
with respect to lines of acceptable conduct. If a situation arises where it is difficult to
determine the proper course of action, like mentioned above, the matter should be
discussed openly with your immediate team leader and, if necessary, with the
Operations Manager, Mike, for advice and consultation.
Compliance with this policy of business ethics and conduct is the responsibility of
every Capytech employee. Disregarding or failing to comply with this standard of
business ethics and conduct could lead to disciplinary action, up to and including
possible termination of employment.
2.4

2.5

Personal gain may result not only in cases where an employee or relative has a significant
ownership in a firm with which Capytech does business, but also when an employee or
relative receives any kickback, bribe, substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of
any transaction or business dealings involving Capytech.
2.6

OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
Employees may hold outside jobs as long as they meet the performance standards of their
job with Capytech. All employees will be judged by the same performance standards and
will be subject to Capytech scheduling demands, including potential short notice overtime,
regardless of any existing outside work requirements.

PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS IN THE WORKPLACE

The employment of relatives or individuals involved in a dating relationship can cause
conflicts and problems in the workplace and have a negative impact on the teams or an
individual's morale.

If Capytech determines that an employee's outside work interferes with performance or the
ability to meet the requirements of Capytech, the employee may be asked to terminate the
outside employment if he or she wishes to remain with Capytech.

Although Capytech has no problem with employing relatives of current employees or
individuals involved in a dating relationship with current employees, we expect the
highest standards at all times and any issues between two parties are kept outside the
workplace with no exception. In case of actual or potential problems, Capytech will take
prompt action, and could mean suspension of the individuals involved while an
investigation takes place. Employees in a close personal relationship should refrain
from public workplace displays of affection or excessive personal conversation.

Outside employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is prohibited. Employees may not
receive any income or material gain from individuals outside Capytech for materials
produced or services rendered while performing their jobs.

CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

2.7

NON-DISCLOSURE

The protection of confidential business information and trade secrets is vital to the interests
and the success of Capytech. Such confidential information includes, but is not limited to,
the following examples:

Employees have an obligation to conduct business within guidelines that prohibit actual
or potential conflicts of interest. This policy establishes only the framework within which
Capytech wishes the business to operate. The purpose of these guidelines is to provide
general direction so that employees can seek further clarification on issues related to
the subject of acceptable standards of operation. Contact the Operations Manager for
more information or questions about conflicts of interest.

• Compensation Data

• New Material Research

•

Client content and data

• Pending projects and proposals

•

Computer Processes

• Proprietary production processes

Transactions with outside firms must be conducted within a framework established and
controlled by the executive level of Capytech. Business dealings with outside firms
should not result in unusual gains for those firms. Unusual gain refers to bribes, product
bonuses, special fringe benefits, unusual price breaks, and other windfalls designed to
ultimately benefit the employer, the employee, or both. Promotional plans that could be
interpreted to involve unusual gain require specific executive-level approval.

• Computer Programs and Codes

• Research and development
strategies

•

Customer Lists

• Scientific data

•

Customer Preferences

• Scientific formulae

•

Financial Information

• Scientific prototypes

An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when an employee is in a position to
influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for that employee or for a relative
because of Capytech business dealings. For the purposes of this policy, a relative is
any person who is related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the
employee is similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage.

•

Labor Relations Strategies

• Technological data

•

Marketing Strategies

• Technological prototypes

All employees are required to sign a non-disclosure agreement as a condition of
employment. Employees who improperly use or disclose trade secrets or confidential
business information will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment and legal action, even if they do not actually benefit from the disclosed
information.

8

9

2.8

Capytech recognizes the benefit of developmental experiences and encourages
employees to talk with their supervisors about their career plans. Supervisors are
encouraged to support employees' efforts to gain experience and advance within the
organization.

DISABILITY ACCOMMODATION

Capytech is ensuring equal opportunity in employment for qualified persons with
disabilities. All employment practices and activities are conducted on a
non-discriminatory basis.
Hiring procedures have been reviewed and provide persons with disabilities meaningful
employment opportunities. Upon request, job applications are available in alternative,
accessible formats, as is assistance in completing the application. Pre-employment
inquiries are made only regarding an applicant's ability to perform the duties of the
position.
Reasonable accommodation is available to all disabled employees, where their
disability affects the performance of job functions. All employment decisions are based
on the merits of the situation in accordance with defined criteria, not the disability of the
individual.

An applicant's supervisor may be contacted to verify performance, skills, and attendance.
Any staffing limitations or other circumstances that might affect a prospective transfer may
also be discussed.

3. EMPLOYMENT STATUS AND RECORDS
3.1

It is the intent of Capytech to clarify the definitions of employment classifications so that
employees understand their employment status and benefit eligibility.

Qualified individuals with disabilities are entitled to equal pay and other forms of
compensation (or changes in compensation) as well as in job assignments,
classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and
seniority lists. Leave of all types will be available to all employees on an equal basis.

Each employee is designated as either NONEXEMPT or EXEMPT from federal and
provincial wage and hour laws. NONEXEMPT employees are entitled to overtime pay
under the specific provisions of federal and provincial laws. EXEMPT employees are
excluded from specific provisions of federal and provincial wage and hour laws. An
employee's EXEMPT or NONEXEMPT classification may be changed only upon written
notification by Capytech management.

Capytech is also committed to not discriminating against any qualified employees or
applicants because they are related to or associated with a person with a disability.
Capytech will follow any provincial or local law that provides individuals with disabilities
greater protection.

In addition to the above categories, each employee will belong to one other employment
category:

This policy is neither exhaustive nor exclusive. Capytech is committed to taking all other
actions necessary to ensure equal employment opportunity for persons with disabilities
in accordance with all applicable federal, provincial, and local laws.
2.9

REGULAR FULL-TIME employees are those who are not in a temporary or probation
status and who are regularly scheduled to work Capytech full-time schedule. Generally,
they are eligible for the Capytech benefit package, subject to the terms, conditions, and
limitations of each benefit program.

INTERNAL JOB POSTING
Capytech provides employees an opportunity to indicate their interest in open positions
and advance within the organization according to their skills and experience. In general,
notices of all regular, full-time job openings are posted, although Capytech reserves its
discretionary right to not post a particular opening.

REGULAR PART-TIME employees are those who are not assigned to a temporary or
probation status and who are regularly scheduled to work less than 28 hours per week.
PROBATION is those whose performance is being evaluated to determine whether further
employment in a specific position or with Capytech is appropriate. Employees who
satisfactorily complete the probation period will be notified of their new employment
classification. The probation period is 90 days or 3 months.

Job openings will be posted on the company email system, and normally remain open
for 15 days. Each job posting notice will include the dates of the posting period, job title,
department, location, grade level, job summary, essential duties, and qualifications
(required skills and abilities).

CONTRACTUAL employees are those who are hired as interim replacements, to
temporarily supplement the work force, or to assist in the completion of a specific project.
Employment assignments in this category are of a limited duration. Employment beyond
any initially stated period does not in any way imply a change in employment status.
Temporary employees retain that status unless and until notified of a change.

To be eligible to apply for a posted job, employees must have performed competently
for at least 90 calendar days in their current position. Employees who have a written
warning on file, or are on probation or suspension are not eligible to apply for posted
jobs. Eligible employees can only apply for those posted jobs for which they possess
the required skills, competencies, and qualifications.
To apply for an open position, employees should submit a job posting application, listing
job-related skills and accomplishments. It should also describe how their current
experience with Capytech and prior work experience and/or education qualifies them for
the position.

EMPLOYMENT CATEGORIES

CASUAL employees are those who have established an employment relationship with
Capytech but who are assigned to work on an intermittent and/or unpredictable basis.
3.2

ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES

Capytech maintains a personnel file on each employee. The personnel file includes such
information as the employee's job application, resume, records of training, documentation
of performance appraisals and salary increases, and other employment records.

10

11

Personnel files are the property of Capytech, and access to the information they contain
is restricted. Generally, only supervisors and management personnel of Capytech who
have a legitimate reason to review information in a file are allowed to do so.

3.6

Supervisors and employees are strongly encouraged to discuss job performance and goals
on an informal, day-to-day basis. Additional formal performance evaluations are conducted
to provide both supervisors and employees the opportunity to discuss job tasks, identify
and correct weaknesses, encourage and recognize strengths, and discuss positive,
purposeful approaches for meeting goals.

Employees who wish to review their own file should contact the HR / Admin Specialist.
With reasonable advance notice, employees may review their own personnel files in
Capytech offices and in the presence of an individual appointed by Capytech to
maintain the files.
3.3

PERSONAL DATA CHANGES

It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify Capytech of any changes in
personal data. Personal mailing addresses, telephone numbers, number and names of
dependents, individuals to be contacted in the event of an emergency, educational
accomplishments, and other such status reports should be accurate and current at all
times. If any employee data has changed, notify the HR / Admin Specialist.
3.4

3.7

PROBATION PERIOD

Capytech maintains job descriptions to aid in orienting new employees to their jobs,
identifying the requirements of each position, establishing hiring criteria, setting standards
for employee performance evaluations, and establishing a basis for making reasonable
accommodations for individuals with disabilities.

All new and rehired employees work on a probation basis for the first 90 calendar days.
If Capytech determines that the designated probation period does not allow sufficient
time to thoroughly evaluate the employee's performance, the probation period may be
extended for a specified period up to 180 calendar days after their date of hire
depending on their performance evaluation.

The HR / Admin Specialist prepares job descriptions when new positions are created.
Existing job descriptions are also reviewed and revised in order to ensure that they are up
to date. Job descriptions may also be rewritten periodically to reflect any changes in the
position's duties and responsibilities. All employees will be expected to help ensure that
their job descriptions are accurate and current, reflecting the work being done.

After the employee has completed his probation period, the immediate supervisor
evaluates the performance of the employee, and upon satisfactory completion, the
employees enter "regular" employment classification with necessary salary adjustments.
Upon regularization, the employee is then observed within the course of another 6 months.
During this period employees will be constantly monitored and assessed. Capytech is
looking for outstanding performers, with the willingness to learn, great teamwork skills and
individuals that show improvements on design and development.
Upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation period, the employee is then rewarded with
another salary adjustment.

EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS

Capytech relies upon the accuracy of the information contained in the employment
application, as well as the accuracy of other data presented throughout the hiring
process and employment. Any misrepresentations, falsifications, or material omissions
in any of this information or data may result in the exclusion of the individual from
further consideration for employment or, if the person has been hired, termination of
employment.

JOB DESCRIPTIONS

Capytech makes every effort to create and maintain accurate job descriptions for all
positions within the organization. Each description includes a job information section, a job
summary section (giving a general overview of the job's purpose), an essential duties and
responsibilities section, a supervisory responsibilities section, a qualifications section
(including education and/or experience, language skills, mathematical skills, reasoning
ability, and any certification required), a physical demands section, and a work environment
section.

The probation period is intended to give new employees the opportunity to demonstrate
their ability to achieve a satisfactory level of performance and to determine whether the
new position meets their expectations. Capytech uses this period to evaluate employee
capabilities, work habits, and overall performance.

3.5

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Employees should remember that job descriptions do not necessarily cover every task or
duty that might be assigned, and that additional responsibilities may be assigned as
necessary. Contact the HR / Admin Specialist if you have any questions or concerns about
your job description.
3.8

SALARY ADMINISTRATION

Capytech is committed to paying its employees equitable wages that reflect the
requirements and responsibilities of their positions and are comparable to the pay received
by similarly situated employees in other organizations in the area.

12

13

Compensation for every position is determined by several factors, including job analysis
and evaluation, the essential duties and responsibilities of the job, and salary survey
data on pay practices of other employers. Capytech periodically reviews its salary
administration program and restructures it as necessary. Merit-based pay adjustments
may be awarded in conjunction with superior employee performance documented by
the performance evaluation process. Incentive bonuses may be awarded depending on
the overall profitability of Capytech and based on each employee's individual
contributions to the organization.

4.
4.1

The amount of paid vacation time employees receive each year increases with the length
of their employment as shown in the following schedule:
• Upon initial eligibility, one (1) year after the hiring date, the employee is entitled to a
maximum of ten (10) vacation leaves.

EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION

• After one (1) year of eligible service, the employee is granted one (1) additional
vacation leave at the starting the succeeding year with a maximum of 30 days.

Termination of employment is an inevitable part of personnel activity within any
organization, and many of the reasons for termination are routine. Below are examples
of some of the most common circumstances under which employment is terminated:

Once employees enter an eligible employment classification, they begin to earn paid
vacation time according to the schedule.

Voluntary Resignation - voluntary employment termination initiated by an employee. At
least 30 days notice should be given before the termination date.

Paid vacation time can be used in minimum increments of one day. To take vacation,
employees should request advance approval from their supervisors. Requests will be
reviewed based on a number of factors, including business needs and staffing
requirements.

Redundancy - involuntary employment termination initiated by the organization because
there is no more work available
Layoff - involuntary employment termination initiated by the organization for
non-disciplinary reasons.

Vacation time off is paid at the employee's pay rate at the time of vacation. It includes
overtime or any special forms of compensation such as incentives, commissions, bonuses,
or shift differentials. It does not include Christmas bonuses or gifts.

Dismissal - involuntary employment termination initiated by the organization for
disciplinary reasons.

Leave requests must give at least 1 week notice and then it will be assessed by the
management for approval.

Retirement - voluntary employment termination initiated by the employee meeting age,
length of service, and any other criteria for retirement from the organization.

As stated above, employees are encouraged to use available paid vacation time for rest,
relaxation, and personal pursuits. In the event that available vacation is not used by the
end of the reference period, the balance of unused vacation WILL NOT be paid out to the
employee.

Death of an employee - involuntary employment termination caused by the death of an
employee.
End of Contract - When a probationary employment contract has reached its expiration
or termination date and the probationary employee has not met the criteria for
regularization. This also applies to project or fixed-term employees whose contract has
reached its termination date.
All of the examples above are in accordance with the Labor Code of the Philippines.

14

VACATION BENEFITS

We believe that it’s important to take breaks for your health and productivity and encourage
you to plan your leaves for the year. Paid annual vacation is available to eligible employees
to provide opportunities for rest, relaxation, and personal pursuits. Vacation leave shall be
plotted in the month of January and will be sent to the management for approval. All
employees are eligible to earn and use vacation time as described in this policy:

Employees should bring their pay-related questions or concerns to the attention of their
immediate supervisors, who are responsible for the fair administration of departmental
pay practices. The accounting department is also available to answer specific questions
about the salary administration program.
3.9

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

4.2

SICK LEAVE BENEFITS

Capytech provides paid sick leave benefits to all eligible employees for periods of
temporary absence due to illnesses or injuries. Eligible employee classification(s):
* Regular full-time employees

15

Eligible employees will accrue on a pro-rated basis sick leave benefits at the rate of 5
days per year. Sick leave benefits are calculated based on a "calendar year," the
12-month period that begins when the employee starts to earn sick leave benefits.
Paid sick leave can be used in minimum increments of one half-day. An eligible
employee may use sick leave benefits for an absence due to his or her own illness or
injury, or that of a child, parent, or spouse of the employee.
Employees who are unable to report to work due to illness or injury should notify their
direct supervisor 2 hours before the scheduled start of their workday if possible. The
direct supervisor must also be contacted on each additional day of absence. If an
employee is absent for 2 or more consecutive days due to illness or injury, a physician's
statement may need to be provided verifying the disability and its beginning and
expected ending dates. Such verification may be requested for other sick leave
absences as well and may be required as a condition to receiving sick leave benefits.
Sick leaves will be paid out to the employee if unused or can be converted to vacation
leaves if unused at the end of each year.
4.3

HOLIDAYS

Capytech will grant holiday time off to all employees on the holidays listed below:
Regular Holiday

• New Years Day

-

January 1

• Day of Valor

-

April 9

• Maundy Thursday

-

To be
announced

• Good Friday

-

To be
announced

• Labor Day

-

May 1

• Eid Ul-Fitr

-

To be
announced

• Independence Day

-

June 12

• Eid Al-Adha

-

To be
announced

• Day

-

August 26

• Bonifacio Day

-

November 30

• Christmas Day

-

December 25

• Rizal Day

-

December 30

National Heroes

Special (Non-Working) Holiday

• Chinese New
Year

-

February 5

• EDSA
Anniversary

-

February 25

• Black Saturday

-

To be
announced

• Ninoy Aquino Day

-

To be
announced

• All Saint’s Day

-

November 1

• Additional Holiday

-

November 2

• Immaculate Conception -

December 8

Additional Holiday

-

December 24

Last Day of the Year

-

December 31

Capytech will grant paid holiday time off to all eligible employees immediately upon
assignment to an eligible employment classification.

• Social Security System (SSS) – The SSS was created to provide private employees
and their families protection against disability, sickness, old age, and death.

If a statutory holiday falls during an eligible employee's paid absence (such as vacation or
sick leave), holiday pay will be provided instead of the paid time off benefit that would
otherwise have applied.

4.4

Fund, is a provident savings system supplying housing loans to private and
Philippine government employees.

If eligible nonexempt employees work on a recognized holiday, they will receive holiday
pay plus wages at one and one-half times their straight-time rate for the hours worked on
the holiday.

• Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) – PhilHealth is administered by

Paid time off for holidays will not be counted as hours worked for the purposes of
determining overtime.
Holiday pay rules and computation are all specified in the Department of Labor and
Employment (DOLE) website.

Employees who sustain work-related injuries or illnesses should inform their supervisor
immediately. No matter how minor an on-the-job injury may appear, it is important that it be
reported immediately. This will enable an eligible employee to qualify for coverage as
quickly as possible.

https://www.dole.gov.ph/news/holiday-pay-rules-out/

Neither Capytech nor the insurance carrier will be liable for the payment of workers'
compensation benefits for injuries that occur during an employee's voluntary participation
in any off-duty recreational, social, or athletic activity sponsored by Capytech.

EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS
Capytech complies with the country’s social insurance program, strengthened by the
provisions of the Republic Act No. 8282 or the Social Security Law, and consists of the
following bodies:

16

• Home Development Mutual Fund (HDMF) – The HDMF, also known as the Pag-IBIG

the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation, and provides employees with a practical
means of paying for adequate medical care in the Philippines.

4.5

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Employees who require taking time off due to the death of an immediate family member
should notify their supervisor immediately.

17

Paid bereavement leave will be provided to employees having worked 60 calendar days
for Capytech:

• Five (5) working days in the case of the death of an employee's spouse, child
or the employee's spouse's child.

• Three (3) working days in the case of the death of an employee's father,
mother, sister, brother, grandfather or grandmother.

• One (1) working day in the case of the death of an employee’s uncle, aunt,
nephew, niece, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandson, grand-daughter (except the uncle, the
aunt, the brother-in-law, the sister-in-law, the nephew and the niece of the
spouse).
Bereavement pay is calculated based on the base pay rate at the time of absence and
will not include any special forms of compensation, such as incentives, commissions,
bonuses, or shift differentials. The employees on leave without balance, of maternity,
disease, in preventive withdrawal, parental leave, will not be able to prevail themselves
of this benefit.
Bereavement leave will normally be granted unless there are unusual business needs
or staffing requirements. Employees may, with their supervisors' approval, use any
available paid leave for additional time off as necessary.
4.6

RELOCATION BENEFITS

When Capytech asks employees to relocate to a new area, certain relocation benefits
may be provided to facilitate the transition. Relocation may be available to any eligible
transferred employee who must relocate in order to reside within 45 miles of the new
place of work. For specific information regarding the terms and extent of relocation
benefits, discuss with your immediate supervisor.
Employees must request relocation assistance for specific items in advance of the date
the expenses are incurred. Capytech will reimburse expenses only if the employee has
received advance approval, incurs reasonable expenses, and submits satisfactory proof
of the expense within 30 calendar days of the date the expense was incurred.
Capytech extends these relocation benefits in an effort to contribute to the success of
every employee's relocation. However, if an employee separates from Capytech service
within one year of the relocation, the amount of the relocation reimbursement will be
considered only a loan. Accordingly, the employee will be asked to reimburse all
relocation expenses.
4.7

TRAINING AND CONTINUOUS LEARNING BENEFITS

As part of an Individual’s career growth and development, Capytech employees are
given a variety of training on the most modern tools that are necessary for the field.
Upon hiring, a new employee is set to undergo training to equip him/her the necessary
skills for the job.
Capytech sees to it that you are properly equipped in delivering the highest quality
products as you grow with the company.

4.8

MARRIAGE, MATERNITY AND PATERNITY LEAVE

MARRIAGE
One (5) paid working day off is allowed for the marriage of the employee or one of his
children. An employee may take one (1) day leave of absence for the marriage of a parent,
brother, sister or child of joint sound.
MATERNITY LEAVE ADMISSIBILITY
Capytech values mothers. Pregnant employees in the company, whether married or
unmarried, are entitled to Maternity Leave with Pay of One hundred and five (105) working
days. Solo working mothers would also get an additional 15 days, for a total of 120 days of
paid maternity leave. Maternity leaves can also be extended by 30 days without pay.
The law stipulates that, apart from being a female employee, you must also be an SSS
member and that has paid at least three monthly contributions within the 12-month period
to successfully avail of maternity leave benefits.
Notice:
a) The employee must provide in writing to the company, at least three weeks in
advance the date of the beginning of her maternity leave and the date envisaged
of her return to work. A medical certificate attesting to the date envisaged of the
birth must accompany the notice.
b) The notice can be less than 3 weeks if the medical certificate attests need for the
employee to cease working within a less time. If physical dangers are possible, the
employee will be assigned to other tasks while preserving the rights and
preferences connected to her regular position.
Return to work:
a) The employee must provide in writing to management the expected date of her
return to work and this, three (3) weeks before returning from his maternity leave
or parental.
b) The employee who does not present himself to work five (5) days after the
expiration of his maternity leave or parental leave may be known to have resigned.
c) The direction can require the employee who returns to work two (2) weeks after
her childbirth, the production of a medical certificate attesting of its sufficient
re-establishment to resume work.
d) At the end of its maternity leave, or parental leave not exceeding 12 weeks, the
employee will be reinstalled in her regular function and it will be entitled to all the
advantages of which it would have profited if she had remained with work.
e) If the regular job of the employee does not exist any more on her return, the
direction will recognize all the rights and preferences that she would have profited
at the time from disappearance of her job if she had then been with work.

18

19

Miscarriage:

4.9

a) In the event of miscarriage, the employee as soon as possible must deliver to the
direction a notice accompanied by a medical certificate attesting of the miscarriage
or the urgency.

ADDITIONAL BENEFITS
Yearly Increase
Regular employees are given a 5% increase on their salary annually. Computation will
be based on their current salary.

b) When a danger of miscarriage requires a stop of work, the employee is entitled to a
special maternity leave of the duration prescribed by the medical certificate, which
attests existing danger.

These benefits are subject to change and all employees will be notified by management
once changes occur.

c) When occurs a miscarriage before the beginning of the twentieth (20th) week
preceding the date envisaged of the childbirth, the employee is entitled to a sick
leave.

Employee Referral Program

d) If an employee is confined to a child dead-born after the twentieth (20th) week
preceding the date envisaged of the birth, she is entitled to the maternity leave of
eighteen (18) weeks.

Employees are encouraged to refer qualified candidates for the position available in
the organization.

Special maternity leave:

Once the employee-referred candidate becomes regular, a remuneration of Php 5,000
will be given to the employee who referred the candidate.

When there is a danger of miscarriage, or a danger to the health of the mother or of the
child to come caused by pregnancy and requiring a stop of work, the employee is
entitled to a special maternity leave of the duration prescribed by the medical certificate
which attests existing danger and which indicates the date envisaged of the childbirth.

5. TIMEKEEPING / PAYROLL
5.1

Preventive withdrawal:

Accurately recording time worked is the responsibility of every nonexempt employee.
Federal and state/provincial laws require Capytech to keep an accurate record of time
worked in order to calculate employee pay and benefits. Time worked is all the time
actually spent on the job performing assigned duties.

When there is a danger of miscarriage, or a danger to the health of the mother or the
child to come caused by the working conditions, the employee must ask to be assigned
to tasks not involving such dangers. If the direction cannot offer other tasks, the
employee can then make the request for a preventive withdrawal. The maternity leave
will then begin at the date envisaged from the childbirth.

Altering, falsifying, tampering with time records, or recording time on another employee's
time record may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment.

PATERNAL LEAVE
Soon-to-be fathers are also entitled to a leave of absence centered on the birth of their
children. If you are a married male employee in Capytech, regardless of the status of
your employment, you are entitled to fourteen (14) days of Paternity Leave that will
allow you to lend support to your wife during her period of recovery and/or in nursing
your newborn child(ren).
BIRTH OF A CHILD OR ADOPTION
Two (2) paid working days off during the birth of the employee’s child or of the adoption
of a child (leave of paternity) other than those of joint sound. Moreover, the employee
can avail himself of a leave without balance of three (3) days. This leave can be split
but must be taken in the 15 following days of the arrival of the child at the house.

TIMEKEEPING

If corrections or modifications are made to the time record, both the employee and the
supervisor must verify the accuracy of the changes by initialing the time record.
5.2

PAY DAYS

The payroll shall be semi-monthly for all employees. The first (1st) payroll shall cover the
21st day of the immediately preceding month until the 5th day of the current month.
The second (2nd) payroll period shall cover the 6th day until the 20th the current month.
Payday for the first (1st) payroll period shall be on or before the 15th day of the current
month and for the second (2nd) payroll period shall be on or before the 30th day of the
current month. Management shall consider Sundays and holidays in releasing the
salaries of all employees for the above mentioned payroll periods.
In the event that a regularly scheduled payday falls on a day off such as a weekend or
holiday, employees will receive pay on the last day of work before the regularly scheduled
payday.
Employees may have pay directly deposited into their bank accounts if they provide
advance written authorization to Capytech. Employees will receive an itemized statement
of wages when Capytech makes direct deposits.

5.3

ADMINISTRATIVE PAY CORRECTIONS

Capytech takes all reasonable steps to ensure that employees receive the correct amount
of pay in each paycheck and that employees are paid promptly on the scheduled payday.

20

In the unlikely event that there is an error for pay, the employee should promptly bring the
discrepancy to the attention of the Admin Manager so that corrections can be made as
quickly as possible.

21

6. WORK CONDITIONS AND HOURS
6.1

6.5

When operating requirements or other needs cannot be met during regular working hours,
employees will be given the opportunity to volunteer for overtime work assignments. All
overtime work must receive the supervisor's prior authorization. Overtime assignments will
be distributed as equitably as practical to all employees qualified to perform the required
work. Employees are not allowed to work overtime after 10:00 PM unless requested by the
employer.

WORK SCHEDULES

The normal work schedule for all employees is 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. Staffing
needs and operational demands may necessitate variations in starting and ending
times, as well as variations in the total hours that may be scheduled each day and
week.

Overtime compensation is paid to all non-exempt employees in accordance with federal
and provincial wage and hour restrictions. Overtime pay is based on actual hours worked.
Time off on sick leave, vacation leave, or any leave of absence will not be considered
hours worked for purposes of performing overtime calculations. Failure to work scheduled
overtime or overtime worked without prior authorization from the supervisor may result in
disciplinary action, up to and including possible termination of employment.

Employees having the occasion to leave their post for any length of time during office
hours, shall always advise their immediate supervisors as to their whereabouts and
probably time of return. Leaving their posts without proper permit shall be considered
abandonment of work and therefore administrative sanction shall be imposed.
Flexible scheduling, or flextime, is available in some cases to allow employees to vary
their starting and ending times each day within established limits. Flextime may be
possible if a mutually workable schedule can be negotiated with the supervisor
involved. However, such issues as staffing needs, the employee's performance, and the
nature of the job will be considered before approval of flextime. Employees should
consult their supervisor.
6.2

6.6

A grace period is granted to all employees. An employee can clock-in 10 minutes at the
beginning of the shift without receiving a penalty or salary deduction.

Personal use of the telephone for long-distance and toll calls is not permitted.
Employees should practice discretion when making local personal calls and may be
required to reimburse Capytech for any charges resulting from their personal use of the
telephone.

Employees must inform their immediate supervisor one (1) hour before his/her designated
time-in. Undertime will not be paid for the actual period of undertime, unless applied to the
employee’s available leave credits as approved

The use of Capytech-paid postage for personal correspondence is not permitted.

6.3

6.7

SMOKING

Please notify the supervisor if any equipment, machines, or tools appear to be damaged,
defective, or in need of repair. Prompt reporting of damages, defects, and the need for
repairs could prevent deterioration of equipment and possible injury to employees or
others. The supervisor can answer any questions about an employee's responsibility for
maintenance and care of equipment used on the job.

This policy applies equally to all employees, customers, and visitors.

The improper, careless, negligent, destructive, or unsafe use or operation of equipment can
result in disciplinary action, a deduction in the individuals salary to pay for any damage and
in extreme circumstances, termination of employment.

MEAL PERIODS

All employees are provided with one meal period of 1 hour in length each workday.
Supervisors will schedule meal periods to accommodate operating requirements.
Employees will be relieved of all active responsibilities and restrictions during meal
periods and will not be compensated for that time.
An additional 30 minute break period is added to each workday that can be used as a
meal period or time to rest, usually 2 hours after the meal period. We believe that we
need ample time to pause on work-related activities as a rested mind performs better
than a tired mind.

USE OF EQUIPMENT
Equipment essential in accomplishing job duties is often expensive and may be difficult to
replace. When using property, employees are expected to exercise care, perform required
maintenance, and follow all operating instructions, safety standards, and guidelines.

In keeping with Capytech’s intent to provide a safe and healthy work environment,
smoking is prohibited throughout the workplace.

6.4

UNDERTIME
Any employee who fails to render eight (8) hours work during his/her designated work
schedule whether due to tardiness, early departure of work, or for whatever reasons, shall
be considered to have done undertime. However, undertime incurred due to tardiness is
still considered tardiness for the purpose of imposing the penalties under this Manual.

USE OF PHONE AND MAIL SYSTEMS

To ensure effective telephone communications, employees should always use an
approved greeting and speak in a courteous and professional manner. Please confirm
information received from the caller, and hang up only after the caller has done so.

OVERTIME

6.8

EMERGENCY CLOSING
At times, emergencies such as severe weather, fires or power failures, can disrupt
company operations. In extreme cases, these circumstances may require the closing of a
work facility.

22

23

When operations are officially closed due to emergency conditions, the time off from
scheduled work will be unpaid. However, with supervisory approval, employees may
use available paid leave time, such as unused vacation benefits.

6.10

To provide for the safety and security of employees and the facilities at Capytech, only
authorized visitors are allowed in the workplace. Restricting unauthorized visitors helps
maintain safety standards, protects against theft, ensures the security of equipment,
protects confidential information, safeguards employee welfare, and avoids potential
distractions and disturbances.

In cases where an emergency closing is not authorized, employees who fail to report for
work will not be paid for the time off.
Employees in essential operations may be asked to work from home on a day when
operations are officially closed. In these circumstances, employees who work will
receive regular pay.
6.9

All visitors should enter Capytech at the reception area. Authorized visitors will receive
directions or be escorted to their destination. Employees are responsible for the conduct
and safety of their visitors.

BUSINESS TRAVEL EXPENSES

Capytech will reimburse employees for reasonable business travel expenses incurred
while on assignments away from the normal work location. All business travel must be
approved in advance by the immediate supervisor.

If an unauthorized individual is observed on Capytech premises, employees should
immediately notify their supervisor or, if necessary, direct the individual to the reception
area.
6.11

Employees whose travel plans have been approved should make all travel
arrangements through HR / Admin Manager. When approved, the actual costs of travel,
meals, lodging, and other expenses directly related to accomplishing business travel
objectives will be reimbursed by Capytech. Employees are expected to limit expenses
to reasonable amounts.

Capytech strives to maintain a workplace free of harassment and sensitive to the diversity
of its employees. Therefore, Capytech prohibits the use of computers and the e-mail
system in ways that are disruptive, offensive to others, or harmful to morale.
For example, the display or transmission of sexually explicit images, messages, and
cartoons is not allowed. Other such misuse includes, but is not limited to, ethnic slurs,
racial comments, off-color jokes, or anything that may be construed as harassment or
showing disrespect for others.

Personal allowance will be given for the following:
• Breakfast, lunch and dinner
• Fares for shuttle or airport bus service
• Taxi fares if needed

Employees who are involved in an accident while traveling on business must promptly
report the incident to their immediate supervisor. Vehicles owned, leased, or rented by
Capytech may not be used for personal use without prior approval.
When travel is completed, employees should submit completed travel expense reports
within 30 days. Reports should be accompanied by receipts for all individual expenses.
Employees should contact their supervisor for guidance and assistance on procedures
related to travel arrangements, travel advances, expense reports, reimbursement for
specific expenses, or any other business travel issues.
Abuse of this business travel expenses policy, including falsifying expense reports to
reflect costs not incurred by the employee, can be grounds for disciplinary action, up to
and including termination of employment.

24

COMPUTER AND EMAIL USAGE

Computers, computer files, the email system, and software furnished to employees are
Capytech property intended for business use. Employees should not use a password,
access a file, or retrieve any stored communication without authorization. To ensure
compliance with this policy, computer and email usage may be monitored.

Expenses that Capytech will book and pay in advance:
• Airfare or train fare
• Car rental
• Accommodation

Employees are encouraged to use their cellular telephone or calling cards when
traveling, as hotel charges are excessive.

VISITORS IN THE WORKPLACE

E-mail may not be used to solicit others for commercial ventures, religious or political
causes, outside organizations, or other non-business matters.
6.12

INTERNET USAGE

Internet access to global electronic information resources on the World Wide Web is
provided by Capytech to assist employees in obtaining work-related data and technology.
The following guidelines have been established to help ensure responsible and productive
Internet usage. While Internet usage is intended for job-related activities, incidental and
occasional brief personal use is permitted within reasonable limits.
All Internet data that is composed, transmitted, or received via our computer
communications systems is considered to be part of the official records of Capytech and,
as such, is subject to disclosure to law enforcement or other third parties. Consequently,
employees should always ensure that the business information
contained in Internet e-mail messages and other transmissions is accurate, appropriate,
ethical, and lawful.

25

The equipment, services, and technology provided to access the Internet remain at all
times the property of Capytech. As such, Capytech reserves the right to monitor
Internet traffic, and retrieve and read any data composed, sent, or received through our
online connections and stored in our computer systems.
Data that is composed, transmitted, accessed, or received via the Internet must not
contain content that could be considered discriminatory, offensive, obscene,
threatening, harassing, intimidating, or disruptive to any employee or other person.
Examples of unacceptable content may include, but are not limited to, sexual comments
or images, racial slurs, gender-specific comments, or any other comments or images
that could reasonably offend someone on the basis of race, age, sex, religious or
political beliefs, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic
protected by law.

• Sending or posting chain letters, solicitations, or advertisements not related to
•
•
•
•
•
•
6.13

Employees who regularly communicate with customers may have their telephone
conversations monitored or recorded. Telephone monitoring is used to identify and correct
performance problems through targeted training. Improved job performance enhances our
customers' image of Capytech as well as their satisfaction with our service.

Internet users should take the necessary anti-virus precautions before downloading or
copying any file from the Internet. All downloaded files are to be checked for viruses; all
compressed files are to be checked before and after decompression.

Computers furnished to employees are the property of Capytech. As such, computer usage
and files may be monitored or accessed.
Employees can request access to information gathered through workplace monitoring that
may impact employment decisions. Access will be granted unless there is a legitimate
business reason to protect confidentiality or an ongoing investigation.

Company internet usage is allowed only on work related activities. This is to ensure that
connectivity is consistent and reliable as it is vital to the company’s daily operations.
Employees can use their personal internet data as long as they are not located in a
designated work area (dining area, receiving area, etc.)

• Sending or posting discriminatory, harassing, or threatening messages or images
• Using the organization's time and resources for personal gain
• Stealing, using, or disclosing someone else's code or password
without authorization

• Copying, pirating, or downloading software and electronic files without permission
• Sending or posting confidential material, trade secrets, or proprietary
information outside of the organization

• Violating copyright law
• Failing to observe licensing agreements
• Engaging in unauthorized transactions that may incur a cost to the organization
•
•
•
•
•

or initiate unwanted Internet services and transmissions
Sending or posting messages or material that could damage the
organization's image or reputation
Participating in the viewing or exchange of pornography or obscene materials
Sending or posting messages that defame or slander other individuals
Attempting to break into the computer system of another organization or person
Refusing to cooperate with a security investigation

WORKPLACE MONITORING

Workplace monitoring may be conducted by Capytech to ensure quality control, employee
safety, security, and customer satisfaction.

The unauthorized use, installation, copying, or distribution of copyrighted, trademarked,
or patented material on the Internet is expressly prohibited. As a rule, if an employee
did not create the material, does not own the rights to it, or has not gotten authorization
for its use, it should not be put on the Internet. Employees are also responsible for
ensuring that the person sending any material over the Internet has the appropriate
distribution rights.

Abuse of the Internet access provided by Capytech in violation of law or Capytech
policies will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
Employees may also be held personally liable for any violations of this policy. The
following behaviors are examples of previously stated or additional actions and
activities that are prohibited and can result in disciplinary action:

business purposes or activities
Using the Internet for political causes or activities, religious activities, or any sort of
gambling
Jeopardizing the security of the organization's electronic communications systems
Sending or posting messages that disparage another organization's products or
services
Passing off personal views as representing those of the organization
Sending anonymous email messages
Engaging in any other illegal activities

Because Capytech is sensitive to the legitimate privacy rights of employees, every effort
will be made to guarantee that workplace monitoring is done in an ethical and respectful
manner.
6.14

WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION

Capytech is committed to preventing workplace violence and to maintaining a safe work
environment. Given the increasing violence in society in general, Capytech has adopted
the following guidelines to deal with intimidation, harassment, or other threats of (or actual)
violence that may occur during business hours or on its premises.
All employees, including supervisors and temporary employees, should be treated with
courtesy and respect at all times. Employees are expected to refrain from fighting,
"horseplay," or other conduct that may be dangerous to others.
Conduct that threatens, intimidates, or coerces another employee, a customer, or a
member of the public at any time, including off-duty periods, will not be tolerated. This
prohibition includes all acts of harassment, including harassment that is based on an
individual's sex, race, age, or any characteristic protected by federal, provincial, or local
law.

26

27

• Excessive absenteeism or any absence without notice
• Unauthorized use of telephones, mail system, or other employer-owned equipment
• Unauthorized disclosure of business "secrets" or confidential information
• Violation of personnel policies
• Unsatisfactory performance or conduct

All threats of (or actual) violence, both direct and indirect, should be reported as soon
as possible to your immediate supervisor or any other member of management. This
includes threats by employees, as well as threats by customers, vendors, solicitors, or
other members of the public. When reporting a threat of violence, you should be as
specific and detailed as possible.
All suspicious individuals or activities should also be reported as soon as possible to a
supervisor. Do not place yourself in peril. If you see or hear a commotion or disturbance
near your workstation, do not try to intercede or see what is happening.

7.2

Capytech treats your personal data in the same way as your own personal property. Thus,
it should never be collected, processed and stored without your explicit consent.
Concurrently, Capytech advocates employees to protect their personal data, it is your right
to be informed to consider other actions to protect your data privacy and assert your
privacy rights.

Capytech will promptly and thoroughly investigate all reports of threats of (or actual)
violence and of suspicious individuals or activities. The identity of the individual making
a report will be protected as much as is practical. In order to maintain workplace safety
and the integrity of its investigation, Capytech may suspend employees, either with or
without pay, pending investigation.

The management is not accountable for conversations that are outside our work
communication tools. On cases that our client, requests your personal contact number to
discuss any work-related matters, you are advised to report this to your supervisor and
politely inform the client that this is against company policy

Anyone determined to be responsible for threats of (or actual) violence or other conduct
that is in violation of these guidelines will be subject to prompt disciplinary action up to
and including termination of employment.
Capytech encourages employees to bring their disputes or differences with other
employees to the attention of their supervisors and the HR / Admin department before
the situation escalates into potential violence. Capytech is eager to assist in the
resolution of employee disputes, and will not discipline employees for raising such
concerns.

7.

EMPLOYEE CONDUCT & DISCIPLINARY ACTION

7.1

EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND WORK RULES
To ensure orderly operations and provide the best possible work environment,
Capytech expects employees to follow rules of conduct that will protect the interests
and safety of all employees and the organization.
It is not possible to list all the forms of behavior that are considered unacceptable in the
workplace. The following are examples of infractions of rules of conduct that may result
in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment:

• Theft or inappropriate removal or possession of property
• Falsification of timekeeping records
• Working under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs
• Possession, distribution, sale, transfer, or use of alcohol or illegal drugs in the
workplace, while on duty, or while operating employer-owned vehicles or equipment

• Fighting or threatening violence in the workplace
• Boisterous or disruptive activity in the workplace
• Negligence or improper conduct leading to damage of employer-owned
•
•
•

or customer-owned property
Insubordination or other disrespectful conduct
Violation of safety or health rules
Sexual or other unlawful or unwelcome harassment

• Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials, such as explosives
or firearms, in the workplace

DATA PRIVACY RIGHTS

7.3

SEXUAL AND OTHER UNLAWFUL HARASSMENT

Capytech is committed to providing a work environment that is free from all forms of
discrimination and conduct that can be considered harassing, coercive, or disruptive,
including sexual harassment. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual's
sex, race, color, national origin, age, religion, disability, or any other legally protected
characteristic will not be tolerated.
Sexual harassment is defined as unwanted sexual advances, or visual, verbal, or physical
conduct of a sexual nature. This definition includes many forms of offensive behavior and
includes gender-based harassment of a person of the same sex as the harasser. The
following is a partial list of sexual harassment examples:
• Unwanted sexual advances.
• Offering employment benefits in exchange for sexual favors.
• Making or threatening reprisals after a negative response to sexual advances.
• Visual conduct that includes leering, making sexual gestures, or displaying sexually
suggestive objects or pictures, cartoons or posters.
• Verbal conduct that includes making or using derogatory comments, epithets, slurs,
or jokes.
• Verbal sexual advances or propositions.
• Verbal abuse of a sexual nature, graphic verbal commentaries about an individual's
body, sexually degrading words, or suggestive or obscene letters or invitations.
• Physical conduct that includes touching, assaulting, or impeding or blocking
movements.
Unwelcome sexual advances (either verbal or physical), requests for sexual favors, and
other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when:
1. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or
condition of employment;
2. Submission or rejection of the conduct is used as a basis for making
employment decisions; or,
3. conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with work performance or
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.

28

29

If you experience or witness sexual or other unlawful harassment in the workplace,
report it immediately to your supervisor. If the supervisor is unavailable or you believe it
would be inappropriate to contact that person, you should immediately contact the HR /
Admin department or any other member of management. You can raise concerns and
make reports without fear of reprisal or retaliation.

• Visible excessive tattoos and similar body art must be covered during business
hours.

7.6

Employees are responsible for all Capytech property, materials, or written information
issued to them or in their possession or control. Employees must return all Capytech
property immediately upon request or upon termination of employment. Where permitted
by applicable laws, Capytech may withhold from the employee's check or final paycheck
the cost of any items that are not returned when required. Capytech may also take all
action deemed appropriate to recover or protect its property.

All allegations of sexual harassment will be quickly and discreetly investigated. To the
extent possible, your confidentiality and that of any witnesses and the alleged harasser
will be protected against unnecessary disclosure. When the investigation is completed,
you will be informed of the outcome of the investigation.
Any supervisor or manager who becomes aware of possible sexual or other unlawful
harassment must immediately advise the HR / Admin department or any member of
management so it can be investigated in a timely and confidential manner. Anyone
engaging in sexual or other unlawful harassment will be subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including termination of employment.
7.4

7.7

ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY

PERSONAL APPEARANCE

Resigning employees will be scheduled for an exit meeting to ensure that all tools and
equipment are returned and to provide an opportunity to discuss any questions or concerns
related to employment with Capytech. Employees who fail to return any company property,
including keys, credit cards, tools, uniforms, cellular phones, laptops and other equipment,
will be deemed ineligible for rehire and may be subject to legal proceedings on behalf of
Capytech.
These provisions supersede all existing policies and practices and may not be amended or
added to without the express written approval of Jason Satterly and Damian Hehir.
7.8

During business hours or when representing Capytech, you are expected to present a
clean, neat, and tasteful appearance. You should dress and groom yourself according
to the requirements of your position and accepted social standards. This is particularly
true if your job involves dealing with customers or visitors in person.

• Jeans, bermudas, t-shirts, and shorts do not present appropriate
•
•
•

professional attire.
Unnaturally colored hair and extreme hairstyles, such as spiked hair and
shaved heads, do not present an appropriate professional appearance.
Offensive body odor and poor personal hygiene is not professionally acceptable.
Facial jewelry, such as eyebrow rings, nose rings, lip rings, and tongue studs, is
not professionally appropriate and must not be worn during business hours.

SECURITY INSPECTIONS

Capytech wishes to maintain a work environment that is free of illegal drugs, alcohol,
firearms, explosives, or other improper materials. To this end, Capytech prohibits the
possession, transfer, sale, or use of such materials on its premises. Capytech requires the
cooperation of all employees in administering this policy.

Dress, grooming, and personal cleanliness standards contribute to the morale of all
employees and affect the business image Capytech presents to customers and visitors.

Your supervisor or department head is responsible for establishing a reasonable dress
code appropriate to the job you perform. Consult your supervisor if you have questions
as to what constitutes appropriate appearance. Where necessary, reasonable
accommodation may be made to a person with a disability.
Without unduly restricting individual tastes, the following personal appearance
guidelines should be followed:

RESIGNATION

Employment with Capytech is voluntarily entered into, and employees are encouraged to
provide a one month notice to facilitate a smooth transition out of the organization. If an
employee provides less notice than requested, the employer may deem the individual to be
ineligible for rehire depending on the circumstances regarding the notice given.

To maintain a safe and productive work environment, Capytech expects employees to
be reliable and to be punctual in reporting for scheduled work. Absenteeism and
tardiness place a burden on other employees and on Capytech and sets a poor
example to others. In the rare instances when employees cannot avoid being late to
work or are unable to work as scheduled, they should notify their supervisor as soon as
possible in advance of the anticipated tardiness or absence. Poor attendance and
excessive tardiness are disruptive. Either may lead to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
7.5

RETURN OF PROPERTY

Desks, lockers, and other storage devices may be provided for the convenience of
employees but remains the sole property of Capytech. Accordingly, they, as well as any
articles found within them, can be inspected by any agent or representative of Capytech at
any time, either with or without prior notice.
7.9

PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
The purpose of this policy is to state Capytech's position on administering equitable and
consistent discipline for unsatisfactory conduct in the workplace. The best disciplinary
measure is the one that does not have to be enforced comes from good leadership and fair
supervision at all employment levels
Capytech's own best interest lies in ensuring fair treatment of all employees and in making
certain that disciplinary actions are prompt, uniform, and impartial. The major purpose of
any disciplinary action is to correct the problem, prevent recurrence, and prepare the
employee for satisfactory service in the future.

•
30

31

Although employment with Capytech is based on mutual consent and both the
employee and Capytech has the right to terminate employment at will, with or without
cause or advance notice, Capytech may use progressive discipline at its discretion.

Final Warning. HR / Admin manager and direct supervisors will conduct a short meeting
with the employee and will be informed that the next violation will result in termination. The
employee will be endorsed to the Operations Manager afterwards for a formal meeting.

Disciplinary action may call for any of four steps – verbal warning, written warning, or
termination of employment – depending on the severity of the problem and the number
of occurrences. There may be circumstances when one or more steps are bypassed.

Termination - Once an employee was given Final Warning and the employee committed
the same mistake, management will discuss and investigate if the allegations are correct. If
the allegations are proven to be correct, management will have the employee terminated.

Progressive discipline means that, with respect to most disciplinary problems, these
steps will normally be followed: a first offense may call for a verbal warning; a next
offense may be followed by a written warning; another offense may lead to a
suspension; and, still another offense may then lead to termination of employment.

Please take note that the mistake should be the same in nature and has separate warnings
between them. These warnings only apply to repeated minor mistakes.
First warnings will reset 6 months after the date of the last warning given. Warnings have
separate dates on when to reset depending on their nature.

Capytech recognizes that there are certain types of employee problems that are serious
enough to justify either a suspension, or, in extreme situations, termination of
employment, without going through the usual progressive discipline steps.
While it is impossible to list every type of behavior that may be deemed a serious
offense, the Employee Conduct and Work Rules policy includes examples of problems
that may result in immediate suspension or termination of employment. However, the
problems listed are not all necessarily serious offenses, but may be examples of
unsatisfactory conduct that will trigger progressive discipline.
By using progressive discipline, we hope that most employee problems can be
corrected at an early stage, benefiting both the employee and Capytech.
Notice to Explain (NTE) and Notice of Decision (NOD):
NTE’s are given to employees who failed to comply with the company’s rules and
regulations as deemed fit by the management.
1. The direct supervisor informs the employee regarding the alleged situation
verbally and sends a formal templated email adding the Operations manager
for guidance and overview.
2. This will be reviewed by management, and an NOD email will be
sent afterwards.
3. If the allegations are proven to be correct, the employee involved will be given
a warning. Otherwise if allegations are incorrect, the NOD will be waived off.
Warnings and Termination:
Verbal Warning - A verbal warning is given by the management for minor cases that
the employee failed to comply with. NTE is not needed in this case, but the employee is
reminded not to repeat the same mistake, or else, an NTE will be given next for the
same violation committed.
First Warning - An NTE is given to the employee who kept on repeating violations that
has been communicated by management through Verbal Warning. If the allegations are
proven to be correct, the employee involved will be given a First Warning.
Final Warning - An NTE is given to the employee who keeps on repeating violations
that have been communicated and proven by management through Verbal Warning and
First Warning. If the allegations are proven to be correct, the employee involved will be
given a

Final warnings will reset 1 year after the date of the last warning given. Warnings have
separate dates on when to reset depending on their nature.
Lastly, depending on severity, management can decide if they want to go straight to
termination in accordance with the law.
7.10

PROBLEM RESOLUTION

Capytech is committed to providing the best possible working conditions for its employees.
Part of this commitment is encouraging an open and frank atmosphere in which any
problem, complaint, suggestion, or question receives a timely response from Capytech
supervisors and management.
Capytech strives to ensure fair and honest treatment of all employees. Supervisors,
managers, and employees are expected to treat each other with mutual respect.
Employees are encouraged to offer positive and constructive criticism.
If employees disagree with established rules of conduct, policies, or practices, they can
express their concern through the problem resolution procedure. No employee will be
penalized, formally or informally, for voicing a complaint with Capytech in a reasonable,
business-like manner, or for using the problem resolution procedure.
If a situation occurs when employees believe that a condition of employment or a decision
affecting them is unjust or inequitable, they are encouraged to make use of the following
steps. The employee may discontinue the procedure at any step.
1. Employees present problems to an immediate supervisor after an incident occurs.
If a supervisor is unavailable or an employee believes it would be inappropriate to
contact that person, the employee may present a problem to the HR / Admin
department or any other member of management.
2. Supervisor responds to the problem during discussion or after consulting with
appropriate management, when necessary. Supervisor documents discussion.
3. Employees present problems to the HR / Admin department if the problem is
unresolved.

32

33

4. HR / Admin department counsels and advises employees, assists in putting
problems in writing and visits with employee's manager(s), if necessary.

5. Employees present problems to their direct supervisor in writing.
6. The direct supervisor reviews and considers the problem. The direct
supervisor informs employees of the decision and forwards a copy of the
written response to the HR / Admin department for the employee's file. The
direct supervisor has full authority to make any adjustment deemed
appropriate to resolve the problem.
Not every problem can be resolved to everyone's total satisfaction, but only through
understanding and discussion of mutual problems can employees and management
develop confidence in each other. This confidence is important to the operation of an
efficient and harmonious work environment, and helps to ensure everyone's job
security.
7.11

WORKPLACE ETIQUETTE

Capytech strives to maintain a positive work environment where employees treat each
other with respect and courtesy. Sometimes issues arise when employees are unaware
that their behavior in the workplace may be disruptive or annoying to others. Many of
these day-to-day issues can be addressed by politely talking with a co-worker to bring
the perceived problem to his or her attention. In most cases, common sense will dictate
an appropriate resolution. Capytech encourages all employees to keep an open mind
and graciously accept constructive feedback or a request to change behavior that may
be affecting another employee's ability to concentrate and be productive.
The following workplace etiquette guidelines are not necessarily intended to be hard
and fast work rules with disciplinary consequences. They are simply suggestions for
appropriate workplace behavior to help everyone be more conscientious and
considerate of co-workers and the work environment. Please contact the HR / Admin
department if you have comments, concerns, or suggestions regarding these workplace
etiquette guidelines.

Workspace:
1. Keep your workspace clean and organized.
2. Throw your garbage in the dust bin properly.
3. Keep a notepad and pen handy to jot down important notes or reminders.
4. Eating at your workstation is allowed provided that you keep your desk clean to avoid
attracting insects or cockroaches.
5. Take care of your tone and pitch while speaking. Remember there are other employees
sitting around you as well.
6. If you need to talk to your colleagues, get up and walk to the other person's desk. Never
shout from your desk.
7. Smoking at your workstation is prohibited.
Meeting room:
1. Reserve the space before assuming it's alright to use.
2. Utilize meeting rooms properly.
3. Noise level from the meeting room must not disturb others.
4. Exit the room immediately after the meeting has concluded as others may have to use it.
5. Leave the meeting room as they are found. It should be returned to the original
arrangement at the end of the meeting.
6. Keep meeting rooms clean. Pick up after yourself and take care of forgotten items
co-workers may miss too. Wipe up crumbs and messes before you leave.
7. Take care of company resources and equipment.
8. Smoking and alcoholic beverages are not allowed.

Dining area:
1. Make sure to sanitize before and after eating to avoid transmission of germs.
2. Always clean up after yourself.
3. Keep utensils at their proper places after washing.
4. Always separate kitchen utensils and sponges for Muslim colleagues.
5. Don’t leave leftover food in the refrigerator for too long. Throw away unwanted food before
it spoils.
6. Pork products are not allowed in the refrigerator and microwave.
7. If the meeting room is used, make sure to not make loud noises as you might interrupt
on-going meetings.
8. Unplug all the kitchen equipment after use.
Washroom/toilet:
1. Never leave the washroom dirty.
2. Never forget to use flush once you are done. Check the toilet seat for unwanted stains or
substance.
3. Always wash your hands with antiseptic soap or sanitizer every time you use the
washroom.
4. Make sure you do not throw anything in the commode to avoid toilet clogs.
5. Do not leave the washroom with taps on.
6. Do not forget to switch off the lights when you leave the washroom.
7.12

SUGGESTION PROGRAM
As employees of Capytech, you have the opportunity to contribute to our future success
and growth by submitting suggestions for practical work-improvement or cost-savings
ideas.
All employees are eligible to participate in the suggestion program.
A suggestion is an idea that will benefit Capytech by solving a problem, reducing costs,
improving operations or procedures, enhancing customer service, eliminating waste or
spoilage, or making Capytech a better or safer place to work. Statements of problems
without accompanying solutions, or recommendations concerning co-workers and
management are not appropriate suggestions.
All suggestions should contain a description of the problem or condition to be improved, a
detailed explanation of the solution or improvement, and the reasons why it should be
implemented. If you have questions or need advice about your idea, contact your
supervisor for help.
Submit suggestions to your line manager and after review, they will be forwarded to the
whole Capytech Management. As soon as possible, you will be notified of the adoption or
rejection of your suggestion.
Special recognition and on occasions, a small bonus may be given to employees who
submit a suggestion that is implemented.

8.

ON-BOARDING CHECKLIST
Please complete these remaining requirements as soon as possible and ask HR / Admin
Department for more information:
Complete Articulate Storyline Training with Capytech
Complete Capytech Employee Information sheet which will be provided by our
HR department
Complete Pre-Employment Requirements with Capytech which will be provided
by our HR department
Sign the Non-Disclosure Agreement
Ask about the Issuance of Temporary ID
Submit Direct Deposit/Payroll Account Information

WISHING YOU A LONG AND REWARDING CAREER AT CAPYTECH!

34

3

Change log

Version

Date

Comments

0.9

January 1, 2021

First release for review.

0.91

January 8, 2021

Second review.

0.92

June 2, 2021

Third review.

1.0

June 8, 2021

For DOLE Registration and Capytech Intranet.

